---
layout: post
author: Joeny Bui
reference: https://web.archive.org/web/20150906155800/http://www.objectmentor.com/resources/articles/Principles_and_Patterns.pdf
---

# SOLID Principles

* make software more understandable
* easier to maintain
* easier to extend


## (S) - Single Responsibility Principle

Every module or class should have responsibility over a single part of the functionality provided.

* coupling - refers to how inextricably linked different aspects of an appplications are
* cohesion - refers to how closely related the contens of a particular class or package may be
* each responsibilty of a class as reson for change, if you can think of more than one reason to change a class then you have more than one responsibility

Examples of responsibilties to consider that may need to be separated include:
* Persistence
* Validation
* Notification
* Error Handling
* Logging
* Class Selection / Instantiation
* Formatting
* Parsing
* Mapping


## (0) - Open/Closed Principle

Software entities (classes, modules, functions, etc.) should be open for extensions, but closed for modification.

* creating software entities whose behavior can be changed without the need to edit and recompile the code itself
* [Strategry Pattern](https://deviq.com/strategy-design-pattern/)
* polymorphism
* inheritance

## (L) - Liskov substitution Principle

Objects in a program should be replaceable with instances of their subtype without altering the correctness of the program.  In layman term, the subtype must be substitutable for their base types.

* if **S** is a subtype of **T**, the object of type **T** may be replaced with object of type **S**
* override parent methods
* if violated, it tends to result in a lot of extra conditional logic scattered throughout the application checking to see the specific type
* very common violations is partial implementation of interface or base class, leaving unimplemented methods or properties to throw an exception


## (I) - Interface segregation Pinciple

No client should be forced to depend on methods it does not use.  

* Developers should favor thing, focused interfaces to 'fat' interfaces that offer more functionality
* Interface should be *cohesive*; they have groups of operations that logically belonging together
* Do not add additional functionality to an existing interface by adding new methods.
* Create new intefaces and have your class implement multiple interface
* [repository pattern](https://deviq.com/repository-pattern/)


## (D) - Dependency Inversion Principle

High level modules should not depend on low level modules; both should depend on abstractions.  

* Abstractions should not depend on details.  
* Details should depend on abstractions.
* Use [dependency injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection)
* [New is Glue](https://ardalis.com/new-is-glue)


## Bonus: DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself)

Duplication in logic should be eliminated via abstraction; duplication in process should be eliminated via automation.

* if-then and switch statements have a habit of being duplicated
* eliminate copy past programming or poor understanding of how to apply abstraction