---
layout: post
author: Joeny Bui
---

# Open Web Application Security Project

OWASP is an international non-profit application dedicated to web application security.

## TOP 10

### 1. Injection

Vulnerabilities - database injeciton, LDAP. SQL Injection. System commands.

#### Best Practices
* Build your web application properly with the write access control protection.
* Query parametization - the commnads that separate query and parameters
* Validate user input
* Add "Limit" to limit the exposure

### 2. Broken Authentication

You allow your users to get into your application without the right credential.

After authentication the user will be given a SessionID for the duration of the session.

* Credential stuffing - use an automated tools to try different username and password
* Automated attacks - user random username and password
* Default passwords

#### Best Practices

* multi-factor authentication => token, cell-phone, thumbprint, eye-scana
* password checking - make sure users passsword is not common
* password complexity
* limits on failed login
* server side session id management

### 3. Sensitive Data Exposure

Some pages uses encryption and some do not.  TLS/SSL and HTTP.

Maybe they used weak ciphers.

#### Best Practice

* Encrypt all the pages that need to be encrypt.
* Encrypt the sensitive data at rest.
* Classify your data
* Apply control your sensitive data
* Strong ciphers
* Possible PFS (Perfect forward secrecy) and/or HSTS 
* Don't store sensitive data unless you have to store the sensitive data (use and trash)

### 4. XML External Entities (XEE)

Take advantage of XML parser to parse bad data.k  Accept XML directly.  Reference to an external entity.  There could trick your web app from parsing bad command.  

XXE (Java is enabled by default)

Billion Laughs - asymmetric attack

#### Best Practice

* Disable XXE completely
* Disable DTE parsing
* Input validation
* Source code analysis tools
* Dynamic security testing
* Web Application Firewall (WAF)

### 5. Broken Access Control

Access control is given access to some users and keeping everything else.

* admin functions
* normal user functions
* auditing features
* super users

Users get access to something it's not suppose to have.

DAST and SAST

Lot's of manual testing

##### Best Practices

* Trusted server side code
* Denied by default
* Build access control one time, and reuse it
* Log your failure and alert admin
* Rate limit access
* Least privileage, give them access to the minimum controls that they need and duration

### 6. Security Misconfiguration

### 7. Cross-Site Scripting

### 8. Insecure Deserialization

### 9. Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities

### 10. Insuffient Logging And Monitoring

