---
layout: post
author: Joeny Bui
---
# SQL or NoSQL

|SQL|NoSQL|
|:-:|:-:|
|Data uses Schemas|Schema-less|
|Relations! (Complicated queries, but normalization|No (or very few) relations (Gread for reading)|
|Data is distributed across multiple tables|Data is typically merged / nested in a frew collections|
|Scaling (Can be hard)|Bboth horizontal and vertical scaling is possible|
|Limitations for lots of (thousands) read & write queries per second)|Great performance for mass (simple) and read & write performance|

## DBS

### SQL (Relational Database)

Index enhance database performances but it adds a certain overhead to the database system as a whole.

 
* Structured Query Language (Need to know ahead of time what the data looks like).  
* The design decision would be hard to change in the future
* Atomic --> it would wait for all transactions to complete before it commits
* strong schemas (description of what is in the database)
* Normalization
* multiple tables that are related
* foreign key
* many to many relations
* one to one
* one to many
* indexes (prevent sequential scan)
* joining tables

Replication is a process that enables you to have multiple copies of the data copied automatically from 'master' to 'slave' databses.  There are multiple benefits,which of them being:

* backup
* spreading the load to improve performance
* analytic teams can work on one of the slave databases, thus not hurting the performances of the main database in case of long running and intensive queries


### Postgres vs MySQL

|-|-|-|
|-|Postgres|MySQL|
|Indexes|B-Tree, hash indexes, expression indexes, partial indexes|B-Tree, R-Trees, Hash indexes|
|Deployed|Written in C|Written in C and C++|
|Replication|2-safe replication (master is synchronized with a slave database. Waits for writes to finish in both database.|One-way asynchronous replication where one server acts as a master and others a slaves.|


### NoSQL (MongoDB / Amazon DynamoDBB)

* Semi or No structured data
* Humongous DBB
* Eventually consistent (you would need to wait)
* Collections / Documents
* Multiple fields (no schemas!)
* There are no relations in a nosql world.
* You put all the information in one place. (Duplicate data, you will need to update in multiple location)


## Normal Form

### First Normal Form (1NF)

A table (relation) in first normal form is immune to some kinds of modification anomalies.
Every table in first normal form must have a unique primary key, and that key may consist on one or more columns.  A key consisting of more than one column is called a *composite key*.

**Must Have**
* the table is two-dimensional with rows and columns
* each row contains data that pertains to some thing or portion of a thing
* each column contains data for a single attribute of the thrings it's describing
* each cell (intersection of a row and a column) of the table must have only a single value
* entries in any column must all be of the same kind
* each column must have a unique name
* no two rows may be identifical
* the order of the comuns and the order of the rows are not significant


### Second Normal Form (2NF)

A *functional dependency* is a relationship between or among attributes.  One attribute is functionally dependent on another.
### Third Normal Form (3NF)

**Third normal** form (3NF) is a normal form that is used to normalized a database design to reduce the duplication of data and ensure *referential integrity*.

*Transitive depdendency* occurs when one attribute depends on a second attribute, which depends on a third attribute.  Deletions in a table with such a dependency can cause unwanted information loss.  A relation in thrid normal form is a relation in second normal form with no transitive dependencies.

